After witnessing the violent rage shown by babies whenever deprived of an item they considered their own.
Joan Piaget a founding father of child psychology observed something profound about human nature.
Our sense of ownership emerges incredibly early why are we so clingy.
There's a well established phenomenon in psychology known as the endowment.
Where we value items much more highly just as soon as we own them.
In one famous demonstration students were given a choice between a coffee mug or a Swiss chocolate bar as a reward for helping out with research half chose the mug and half chose the chocolate that is they seem to to value the 2 rewards similarly other students were given a mug first and then a surprise chance to swap it for a chocolate bar but only 11 percent wanted to.
Yet another group started out with chocolate and most preferred to keep it rather than swap.
In other words the students nearly always put greater value on whichever reward they started out with part of this has to do with how quickly we form connections between our sense of self and the things we consider hours that can even be seen at the neural have.
In one experiment neuroscientists scanned participants brains while the allocated various objects either to a basket label mine or another labeled Alex's.
One participant subs.
In a real.
Whenever we.
About our self.
Another reason we're so fond of artists.
Is that from a young age we believe they have a you.
Psychologists showed us that.
By using and and lose.
And Vince.
Colts.
They built.
A device that could create perfect replica.
If any item.
When offered a choice between their favorite toy or an apparently exact.
The majority of the children favored the original in fact they were often horrified at the prospect of taking home a copy.
This magical thinking about objects isn't something we grow out of rather it persists into adulthood while becoming ever more elaborate.
For example consider the huge value placed on items that have been owned by celebrities it's as if the buyers believed the objects they purchased were some help imbued with the essence of their former celebrity owners.
For similar reasons many of us are reluctant to part with family heirlooms which help us feel connected to lost loved ones.
These beliefs can even alter our perception of the physical world and change our athletic abilities participants in a recent study were told they were using a golf putter once owned by the champion and Curtis.
During the experiment they perceived the whole as being about a centimeter larger.
Troll part.
Using a standard potter and they sank slightly more pots.
Although feelings of ownership emerge early in life culture also plays a park.
For example it was recently discovered that hides the people of northern Tanzania Cork isolated from modern culture don't exhibit the endowment the fact that's possibly because they live in an egalitarian society where almost everything is shared at the other extreme sometimes our attachment to our things can go too far.
Part of the cause of hoarding disorder is an exaggerated sense of responsibility and protectiveness toward one 's belongings.
That's why people with this condition find it so difficult to throw anything away.
What remains to be seen today is how the nature of our relationship with our possessions.
Will change with the rise of digital technologies.
Many have forecast the demise of physical books and music but for now at least this seems premature perhaps there will always be something uniquely satisfying about holding an object in our hands and calling it our own.